# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the Property class?
Console.rb

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby Property object into the database?
in the save function in property.rb

Q3. In console.rb, which lines modify the database?
 31 - property3.save()
 33 property1.delet()
Q4. Why do we not define the id of a Property object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?
We let the database do this for us rather than having to create a new incremental id every time. This will stop us from making any errors when creating id numbers.

Q5. Where and how do we assign the property id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby object?
this id done in the SAVE method in the property.rb file. We get the id using RETURNING id and update the instance variable of @id to that value.

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an ‘if’ clause) on the @id attribute in the constructor?
to ensure an id is added to the @id variable only if there isn't one already there. This ensure that all new objects have an id and that existing ids are not overridden.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others, class methods?

Class methods represent GETTER methods and instance methods represent the SETTER methods.

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by db.exec() and db.exec_prepared(), and how do we index into it to pull out a desired attribute?
These return an array of hashes [{}].You can access the hash by using a [0]. Once you have the hash you can use .address or .id to get the address or id respectively.

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?
A prep statements will ensure that there is no SQL code in your variables prior to running these. This is how we can avoid SQL injection attacks.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the Property class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?
find_by_id takes an id. We can get the id by applying the id method to the object (property2)
find_by_address takes and address as a string.

Q11. What are their return values?
find_by_id will return the address, value, bedrooms and build results for that id. This will be a Property Object
find_by_address will return all the above for that address. This will also be a Property object
